Hey, YouTube. Hey, Brian. Hey. It's great to be here with you as always. It's good to
be here. Yeah. And everyone who is out here watching, thanks for being here. If you come
later, thanks for watching the replay. Well, shall we kick it off? Yeah. Got a lot of exciting
things. Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds. This is episode 286, recorded May 31st, 2022. I'm Michael
Kennedy.
And I'm Brian Okkend.
And this episode is brought to you by us. If you're looking to learn Python, check out
all the courses over at Talk Python Training. If you want to get better with testing, check
out Brian's pytest book, second edition.
Yes.
Yes, indeed. Indeed. All right. Well, let's jump right into it, Brian.
OK, actually, I do want to talk about the GIL,
but I was just realizing that we're at 286.
I just started watching Big Bang Theory with my youngest kid,
and there's 279 episodes of them.
So we have more than-- it went on forever,
and we have more episodes than them.
That's quite the milestone.
I mean, you divide that by 52, that's a lot of years.
We've been doing this for a while.
So Python and the GIL.
So the GIL is a thing, right?
It's like something everybody knows about, I think.
People know about, but not too much.
So, I mean, you kind of,
it means we can't do multiprocessing,
but we can, but we can't.
So what is it?
And so I really like this article.
So this is an article called
the Python Guild Past, Present, and Future,
because we have been talking about
some of the no-gil options that are coming.
And so this is really nice.
It's, who is it?
Gary, Barry Warsaw and Pavel Polowicz, I think.
Anyway, really great article on the Backblaze blog.
And it starts out and goes through
sort of what is the GIL, why we have it.
It's a lot around the way in some of the history
is around reference counting.
And maybe you knew that off the top of your head,
but I forgot that reference counting is something
that's how we do memory management
and all sorts of stuff within Python.
But to make it an easy implementation,
there's this global interpreter lock.
And that just basically, instead of lock like other code,
you lock individual items, shared memory that you're using.
We just say the interpreter, let's just lock that.
And all of the variables that it uses.
It's not just reference counts, but other things too.
And this is just, it's a fairly quick read,
but enough detail that you really kind of understand
what's going on.
It does talk through, you know, reference counting,
talks through that, some of the advantages,
why it's really kind of handy to have it around,
but then attempts to remove it in including,
like, I didn't know about this one.
There was a free thread in 1999.
- 1999, yeah, that's, I didn't know about that one.
That's news to me.
- It actually was successful.
It just made your Python code really slow.
So not good.
And then Larry Hastings Galectomy
that he's had a lot of PyCon talks
or a few PyCon talks around this.
So that's an interesting thing to read about.
There's quite a few interesting bits in there
but it never really got back into main Python
But we're getting a little closer with this no-gil stuff.
So there's no-gil stuff going on with Sam Gross.
>>Sam Gross, yep.
>>Yeah.
And then also we've got Guido and others in Microsoft
now working on this problem of speeding it up and everything.
So really great discussion if you
want to catch up on all the history of the gill
and where it's going.
And then a little prediction at the end
of we're gonna see speed ups because of these efforts.
We're gonna see speed ups in the next few years.
Just, it's just gonna get faster.
And then we, you know, if we get no gill,
it might be maybe five years from now-ish.
So. - Yeah.
- It's.
- It's pretty exciting.
There's some very neat work.
The stuff that Sam Gross is doing is quite interesting.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, and it's actually, it's pretty exciting,
pretty exciting time to be part of Python.
So like it's never not been exciting, but you know.
- Yeah, it only gets more exciting.
How's that?
- Yeah.
- Hey, let me ask you a meta question.
So this is on the back end of the Python 3.11.
So what's the difference between the Python 3.11
and the Python 3.11?
- Yeah, so the Python 3.11 is a little bit different.
It's a little bit more advanced.
you a meta question. So this is on the backblaze blog. So
backblaze.com is a one of the I think better sort of backup my
computer somewhere off site sort of thing. Yeah. And the fact
that they're blogging about the Python GIL is kind of
interesting. I wonder if they're a big Python shop and we just
didn't know it.
Well, there's like, I didn't know. It's on their blog. But I
I mean, we've got Barry Warsaw in there.
- Barry Warsaw, Powell, yeah, so.
- He says he's currently a senior engineer at LinkedIn,
so I'm not sure.
- Sometimes life's confusing.
- Yeah, not sure how this ended up there, but yeah.
- But it's cool to see Backblaze
supporting the Python world with some dives into the--
- Yeah, maybe somebody from Backblaze
can reach out to us and tell us what's going on.
- Yeah, that'd be great.
Also great, wouldn't it be cool, Brian,
if we could take our Python program,
whether this is a CLI or some other app
that we need to have for people to run,
and instead of saying,
well, make sure you have this version of Python at least,
and make sure you've set up a virtual environment,
you've installed these things,
and then you've got this in the path,
and then you've got this environment variable,
now you can try to run our thing I gave you.
If you could just give them a single binary
that contained all the Python,
contained the standard library and you said you run this and
that's your app.
That's not bad, right? So let me introduce you to pie oxy. The
pie oxy Python runner. Now a while ago we spoke about this
thing called. Ox oxygen pie oxidizer. That's what it was by
oxidizer and this is kind of like.
an advanced version of Py2exe or Py2app or PyInstaller.
But what's really nice is that it bundles the stuff up
just sort of all into one thing, and it runs out of memory
instead of creating like a file structure of the files that you need
and then, you know, sort of altering the path.
So like a copy of Python will run that and so on.
So this PyOxi attempts to make the features of PyOxidizer
more accessible and simpler for people.
OK, so here's the deal.
It is an executable program for running Python interpreter,
so you can just give somebody this one pyoxy file
and they can instead of saying Python this,
they can say pyoxy some Python file.
Right, you can say like run Python or run Python dash
dash and give it a file or something along those lines.
Right, and it's just a thing you copy around.
you don't have to worry about installing it
or configuring your system or anything like that.
So it's kind of a really easy way to pass around
an executable that is Python in the standard library
without all the overhead or setup
of actually installing a Python runtime.
- Okay.
- Okay?
- Yeah.
- So let me go back up here.
That's pretty cool.
That's one of, it's a single file.
It's a single file that is a highly portable distribution
of CPython.
So for example, on macOS and Linux,
it statically links in a lot of the files
that are dependencies that you might find.
So if you try to run something in Python,
it might go like, oh, you have to install
this other C library in order for it to work correctly.
So all those things are also,
like its dependencies are statically compiled into it,
which is pretty cool.
Another thing that's interesting
is it gives you a lot more control
over the interpreter and how it behaves.
Like you can pass it configuration files
and do all sorts of crazy stuff to really tweak
the behavior of the runtime,
the Python runtime that it comes with.
- Yeah.
- And it's just to sort of make
PyOxidizer apps more accessible.
Okay, so yeah, so it gives you,
it's built with PyOxidizer,
and basically it gives you its own standalone one.
Like I said, it has the whole interpreter,
It has the stuff statically linked,
it has the standard library,
and I think you can link your own libraries into it as well,
which is pretty awesome.
And you could also give it, like I said, more control,
so you can create a configuration YAML file.
And when you run it, you can say,
I want you to debug allocations,
or I want you to run this command
to initialize the interpreter
before it starts to run any code and things like that.
So you can give it this yaml config file and so on.
So anyway, it's a pretty new project.
This is from Gregory Sork.
And he says, "It's very young.
I hacked it together to try to get better exposure
for PyOxidizer, for people who want to build things
that they can distribute more easily and so on."
And for me, he's talking about,
oh, there's some certain circumstances
where maybe you want to have people run your script,
so you can send the script and then this thing and so on.
It's supposed to be sort of on par with zip app,
which lets you ship the zipped up thing of your app and then run it.
But the benefit is it already comes with Python.
Like a lot of these zip, shiv, pex, etc.,
they all require that Python is installed on the system.
And then you can run that, right, with its dependencies.
But this is like, no, it even comes with Python.
So all that is pretty good.
What I would love to see out of this
is, could I take this and build some sort of UI framework,
pair that, I don't know, maybe with PyScript,
and then get a UI framework I can ship to people
and just go download this, double click it,
there's your app.
Who knows?
Yeah.
But anyway, you're shipping Python to people.
This might be worth checking out.
Yeah.
Yeah, neat. Yeah, came out in the audience.
Asked it looks very handy.
Does it make cross platform?
A cross platform executable.
I think you might have to run a build
command or something or ship the
right binary for each platform,
but it does support macOS,
Windows and Linux, so that's pretty cool.
Now maybe you covered this and I just missed it.
What does it?
Does it deal with my dependencies?
Like if I have third party dependencies?
That's what I'm not 100% sure how to do.
When I looked through it, I was looking for that.
There is this oxidized importer, which
it talks about this embeds a copy of the Python standard
library and it imports from memory
using the oxidized importer.
I think that you could use that as well
for your own dependencies.
And I'm pretty sure that's the goal of this PyOxidizer
project in the first place.
So I would think so, but nothing from this article
was really clear.
like here's how you bring in requests or HTTPS
or whatever you're gonna bring along, you know?
- Yeah.
- Okay.
Or pytest.
I was actually just thinking it'd be,
if I, you know, run these tests,
well, what version are you using?
Okay, just fine.
Here, just install this and run this test with this.
And that would be cool. - Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, and Alvaro, when I was talking about UI stuff,
He says, "What about PyOxi plus textual?"
That'd be pretty neat as well, yeah.
- Indeed. - Just around the corner.
- Yeah, cool.
All right, well, that's PyOxi.
People can check it out.
- All right.
Well, how...
(laughs)
How about regular expressions?
Do you like those?
- When they work, I love them.
I'm like, what is, what is this madness I've gotten myself into?
Okay, so I was almost afraid to like talk about this, but it's a really awesome article
because, because sometimes you need regular expressions.
And and one of the things there's lots of that I like about this article.
So what I'm talking about is an article called the unreasonable effectiveness of f-strings
and verbose.
So regular expressions in all languages,
including I think, including Python,
have a notion of a verbose mode.
And I've always been enticed by this.
The verbose mode idea is that you can,
like instead of having this reared,
you still have the hard to read regular expression stuff,
but you can put comment,
you can put spaces and comments in it.
And then it's fine.
- It could be multiline, right?
- What?
- It can be multi-line.
- Yeah, it can be multi-line
and you can have a bunch of comments in there to say,
oh, this part of the regular expression,
what it's doing is this, you know?
And then, so it makes it,
little snippets of regular expression are easier to read.
You're like, oh yeah, I can see that it's doing that.
Great.
When it's when you clog it all together,
which makes it really hard to read.
So, and then, of course you can build up strings in Python
with f-strings and do string replacement.
How awesome.
So that's what this article is about,
is really talking about using,
taking some of the complicated bits
of your regular expression or duplicated bits
where it shows up several times in your regular expression
and pulling that out, that string out,
and even maybe commenting that,
and then dropping it in with f-strings
to build up a complex regular expression.
It's brilliant and it also is one of the best explanations
I've ever read on verbose regular expressions.
So it's pretty cool.
- Yeah, I never really thought to refactor the pattern
so that you have multiple strings.
We like, here's the part that's repeated.
So we'll have a pattern that that's that thing
and then F string it into the other pieces.
- Yeah.
- But it makes perfect sense.
Of course you should do it.
- Yeah, and now, I mean, I don't use it.
I mean, actually I kind of do.
I use regular expressions on a regular basis,
but not like every day,
but it's always something that whenever I put it in there,
I'm like, is anybody else gonna be able to read this?
And so I put comments around it,
but I've never, I haven't ever really embraced verbose mode
and I'm definitely gonna use this now.
- Yeah, for sure.
The other thing real quick is you can have f-strings
and you can have raw strings
and you can have raw f-strings, apparently in Python.
So the prefix is FR triple quote, multi-line.
Like that's some serious string action
happening right there, man.
- Yeah, raw f-strings, nice.
- Yeah.
And Neil out in the audience asks you, Brian,
do you like your regular expressions greedy or non-greedy?
- Okay.
It depends on what you're trying to do.
So yeah, I don't want mine to be greedy.
Let's share.
Share kindly.
All right.
Are we ready for the next one?
- Yes.
- Cool.
All right, so this one I wanna talk about,
and I'm gonna start off from a weird place,
from a tweet that I gave,
because I can't find anywhere else to talk about it.
Like this is why this needs talking about.
So I just wanna sort of highlight some really cool stuff
for people who are using PyCharm
and doing open source stuff that involves pull requests.
And these can be pull requests to your private repo,
like one team member gave a PR back to the repo.
It doesn't have to be open, open source.
So if you're using PyCharm, check this out.
Let me pull up this screen.
Come on.
Oh, I'm not logged in.
Oh, there we go.
I thought it might not.
Let me get the image up.
Anyway, so check this out.
So people are probably familiar
with the Git support in PyCharm.
You know, VS Code, PyCharm,
they all have really good Git support.
You can see your changes.
A lot of times you have this sort of,
this gray little overlay that says
who recently edited a file or a line.
And it's really cool to go back
with like GitLens turned on for CPython,
'cause you'll see stuff from like 30 years ago,
Guido made this commit and here was the commit message.
You know, you're like, what?
This is crazy, right?
But working with PRs is one of the things
that doesn't normally seem to fit.
And so I don't know when this got in there,
but not too recently, there's now a pull request tab.
So if you open a GitHub repository,
if you're logged into GitHub
and that GitHub repository has a pull request
and you open up the section,
it gives you a list of all the open,
and I guess maybe you can toggle it close as well,
but all the lists of the open pull requests.
If you click on one of them,
It'll show you all the details of the pull request,
the whole conversation if you click on that,
who's the reviewer, you can change that,
who's it assigned to, whether there's labels,
whether it's been merged.
And then like on the right, you have this whole conversation
you can see sort of the flow, this person commented this
and they made these few more changes,
then they commented again here.
This is all really pretty neat.
But the thing that is noteworthy,
the reason I brought this up is there's a button
that says check out.
So instead of trying to create a branch
or fork their repo and checking,
like you just, I don't know where this repo
or this PR came from or what branch it was against.
I just want to check it out and run it locally,
run the test against it, see what it looks like, go.
Isn't that awesome?
- Yeah, that is really, really awesome.
I like it.
- Normally you're juggling a lot.
Maybe you have CI continuous integration
that tells you like the linting pass,
but other times you want to actually just get it
and run it and play with it
and decide, did this make the code slower?
Did it make it faster?
Do I like how the result of this feature looks,
especially if it's a UI thing or something, right?
So I think this is super cool.
And the reason I bring it up is there's nowhere
in the documentations, if you go over to PyCharm here
and you look for pull requests,
they don't even mention this, right?
So I don't think people necessarily know about this.
It seems--
- It's a stealth feature.
It seems totally worth highlighting
because dealing with PRs in that way
is actually kind of janky, right?
It's like it takes a little bit of understanding
Git maybe more than, and GitHub more than
a lot of people would off the bat.
So if you just go click, check out, play with it,
nope, I don't want it, or yes, I love it,
I think that's great.
I would still actually manage the PR in GitHub,
but the ability to explore it super quick and easy
within your project I think is super cool.
- Yeah, and quickly grab the code
because I mean, I know in GitHub, you can get it,
you can clone their branch and--
- Yeah, exactly.
But it's hard, it's like not super easy, right?
- It's several clicks at least to find it.
And so, yeah.
- Right, and do you actually want it cloned to your account?
Maybe not, I just want to check out the code, you know,
like so grab the right commit, hash, shot, whatever.
Also really quick while we're on this topic,
I just want to give a quick shout out to this.
So if you go to just the jetbrains.com/pycharm right now,
across the top, there's this-- oh, here, there's this cool
upcoming webinar, 10 Get Things You Wish You Knew in PyCharm.
Very oddly, that is me.
So anyway, I'm going to do a webcast next week on June 7th
about a whole bunch of get fun things in PyCharm and UI tools
and whatnot.
So if you want to check that out, they definitely can.
Cool.
Yeah.
All right.
So that's it for my thing.
Check out if you're using PyCharm,
check out this pull request thing.
It's even in the free version of PyCharm.
So it's worth noting.
- Nice.
- Let's see, a really, really quick real-time follow-up.
Roman Wright, hey, Roman, says,
"Yes, it helps me sort out PRs so much."
I totally agree.
And then Wolf says, "Is it available in IntelliJ
"and does it work with GitLab?"
I don't know if it works with GitLab.
I'm quite sure it's available in IntelliJ,
'cause PyCharm is just basically specialized IntelliJ.
So I'd be very surprised if it weren't available in IntelliJ,
but I can't say for sure in GitLab.
I would check the documentation,
but I also can't find that, so.
- So on the PyCharm side,
isn't there supposed to be some UI changes
that happened recently, or do you know?
- Possibly.
One of the things that changed recently,
that I actually kept stumbling into on the Git stuff
is they have little overlays of who made changes when,
kind of like that Git lens from VS Code I described.
They started adding that and I kept clicking it by accident,
trying to click on the line.
So that's like, why does it keep popping up a diff?
Oh, I see, okay.
I kind of crashed into it, but yeah.
Anyway, if you're doing PRs, check this out.
If you're doing PRs and using PyJarm, check this out.
It's definitely useful.
>> All right, well, so we have no guests,
so that's our items for today.
>> It is.
It is.
Well, we would be remiss to not have extras, though.
>> Of course.
So--
>> Are you going to do the extras first?
Your extras first?
>> Sure.
I just got one.
So it was a couple weeks ago.
I think we talked about Panda's tutor
switching to Piedide, I think.
So there's an article that came out on the Piedide blog
that is about Pandas Tutor switching to Piedide.
And so the reason why I bring it up
is because there's some cool stuff in here.
It's not just, hey, we did this,
but it's also why did we do it?
and kind of walking through some of the stuff,
how they did a self-contained pandas tutor wheel,
dealing with JavaScript and imports
and all that sort of stuff and the fine tuning
and what work has to go further.
So other people that are like,
hey, this Pyodide actually proof of concept,
it's starting to look cool, I wanna do this too.
This might be a nice thing for people to check out.
- Yeah, this is super nice.
And I definitely think the, what are the rough edges
and what worked really well, those types of lessons
for now are gonna be really valuable
for people trying to adopt this.
- Yeah.
That's all my extras.
- All right, well, let's just make it a straight run
for Pi Iodide and Pi Script right out.
So last week I did two videos on Pi Script,
which is based on Pi Iodide,
as well.
So first one is a 30 minutes video.
I sort of hinted that I was working on this,
but remember I said it wasn't quite released yet, Brian?
- Yeah. - Last episode.
So now it's out.
So now you can check out, I'll link to it.
You can check out my 30 minute Python,
PyScript WebAssembly, Python web apps running locally,
which is super fun.
It's all about not just, you know,
let's like take some Python and put it in the browser,
but how can you use some like PyDash config settings
to override where PyScript actually comes from.
The Pyodide, the runtime comes from,
so you can like put that locally in your app
and then download it offline
and all sorts of fun stuff there.
So basically building an offline progressive web app
that is like, can be almost 100% offline.
This one calls an API, so it still needs its API.
Anyway, that was really fun.
And then the next day after releasing that,
it occurred to me,
do you know what supports progressive web apps?
iOS and Android.
So I created a second video called
Python iOS Web Apps with PyScript and Offline PWAs.
And so here is, if you look on the screen,
there's a, on my iPad,
there is a web app that runs PyScript
talking to a Flask-based API over the internet.
And it is basically, you can go up and basically say,
install this as an app on my iPad.
And when you launch it, that install process
already downloads the WebAssembly and the standard library
and all the WebAssembly stuff that makes it large.
So you just boom, and it opens up within like
less than two seconds, running Python client side on iOS.
- That is so cool.
I'm seeing lots of uses for this.
I mean, people could do like dashboards of pipelines
and all sorts of stuff and have them be on tablets now.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, it's, I mean, once you've already made it
a progressive web app, it's like a few button clicks.
Like this whole video about this iOS thing
with like setting the stage and everything
is it's three minutes.
So, I mean, it's not a hard process to make it happen
but it's just not obvious
and it's really cool that it works that way.
- Cool.
- Yeah.
All right, well, that's it for my items.
I do have a joke.
- Nice.
- And I know you might have a joke as well.
- Yeah.
- Awesome, okay.
I'll go with mine first 'cause mine's easy.
And then I have a bonus joke for you
based on your topic that I didn't see coming.
Okay. - Okay.
- So this one comes from Brian Skin.
Thanks, Brian.
I just sort of pointed out a joke from Seth
and it says, "People are out here
just dangerously throwing around SQL abstraction layers.
And if we aren't careful, someone's gonna lose an arm."
(Brian laughs)
In ORM.
It's pretty good, isn't it?
- Yeah, it's really good.
Actually, if you are careful, you can lose your arm for good.
Yes, and still be alright.
Yeah.
So here's the real-time joke follow-up that based on your projects.
Ask me why I'm looking like this.
Why?
Well, that's just my regular expression.
It's terrible.
It's really bad.
Alright.
- I wish I had somebody in my life I could share that with
other than you.
- If other people listen to the show,
we could share with them too.
- Okay, so there's like all sorts of AI and stuff
going into code editors now
that make them like do all sorts of stuff
to help you out, right?
So, (laughs)
Kermit the Frog looking out of a rainy window.
It's when you barely started writing a line of code
and your IDE already lets you know
about three syntax errors, two runtime errors,
a grammar mistake, five misdemeanors,
contempt of court, and treason.
- Joe's getting started.
Why is it so hard?
That's really good.
I kind of felt that way too.
I was playing around with some stuff.
I'm just like, what is good?
This is over the top, this thing.
- Yeah.
So, but no, good.
I'm glad the editors can help us out,
but sometimes I feel like an idiot.
Yes, indeed.
Well, great being here with you.
Good being here with you.
Indeed.
Thanks everybody for coming.
Bye everyone.
Thanks for being here.
See you next time.